A case doing this video we're going to be looking at ordering data from lowest to highest in highest
to lowest.
So here I select the star from our products table and you can see as automatically ordered by the ID
field which is our primary key.
So it's going one two three four five.
So it's all added using the ID field.
But what if we want to order all data using a different field.
Let's say we wanted to list the price from lowest to highest or highest lowest.
How are we going to do that.
Well to do that we need to enter an ORDER BY statement.
So in our select from select style from products we can go and enter a new line and we can type order
by the price column.
So order by price and then we can stay either ascending or descending.
So we want it from lowest to highest.
So even ascending.
So to do that we tied I see and then we can run that statement and you can see now that our result set
is no longer ordered by ID but is ordered by our price column.
So the first one is 2.5 free free point 2 5 3.5.
So that's ordered by Price column in ascending order and similarly to do in descending order.
We just need to tie the s c off to the price column.
So replace a s c d c.
So this is ordering by the price column in descending order.
So from highest to lowest and you can see now that it starts 3.5 0 and is going down.
So 3.2 5 free.
And then finally 2.5.
So this is how we order data in ascending and descending order so that for a price column so a number
field.
Now let's do it for strings.
So let's select store from our customer table and here you can see as ordered by ID as well which is
the primary key is always ordered by the primary key by default.
But less order by last name select select stuff from customers and let's order by last name.
Now first who would do it from 8 ad so from 8 that is actually ascending.
So I see and you can see now it starts with the first entry which she and no value for the last name
so no values come first and then it starts with a for Armstrong and then blue.
And then a j o et cetera.
So sending four strings is eight is that.
And then if you wanted to order it from set A alphabetically you would type D S C instead.
Or the last name descending and you can see restart.
West so w and then T and then the Smiths and then finally we get to a and on no values so we have no
values at the end when you're doing it.
Descending order a to that was that way and we can also order by a date field.
So let's select staw from orders.
And you can see that it looks like it's ordered by date by the order Time column but it's actually ordered
by the ID field.
It just happens when I was entering the data that I made sure that each order was in.
So in time order as well.
So let's order this by the order toy all the time column instead select select store from orders and
then set a WHERE clause that side where customer ID is equal to 1.
So we're going to find out on which days customer I.D. is coming into our shop to buy a coffee and then
we can type order by order time
and let's start with sending.
So this is going so you can see ascending is going from the 2nd of January to the third to the fourth.
So it is going from the first time back to the the latest order which was the 20th of February.
And if we were to do this in dust's descending order
we would see that the first entry is on the 28 for February and then it's going back in time for the
Giotto's 21st 2013.
And then the ones in January.
So this is how we order data by column.
When we're doing select statements one more thing to add is that you can just not put the or A.S.C.
at all.
You can simply type order by a column.
And if we run that we can see but default is to order the column from lowest to highest.
So from 2.5 all the way up to 3.5 or the default is on strings is to order it from a to Zed.
So you can see it starts with the no and then it's a B Accenture.
So that's everything you need to know about ordering data by column in my Askey row.